# Environmental-C02-Analysis
Climate change is a very complex system and this is just a precursory look at one of the factors. The question being investigated in this project is if atmospheric C02  has an effect on global temperature. Looking at global C02 emissions and temperature change side by side is a good starting point.
	
	Two datasets were used in this analysis. The first is the recorded temperature from 1961 – 2017 of different countries around the world by NASA. The mean temperature change was recorded monthly, seasonally and yearly. In the columns for the year the change in temperature from the baseline climatology (1951-1980) is noted. The second dataset that was used is CO2 emissions data from the website ourwoldindata.org. This dataset contains the CO2 emissions data of countries from 1751 – 2017.
	
	In order to properly analyze the data, the data-frames had to be cleaned. For the temperature change data, I decided to only use the meteorological year statistics. There were some countries with missing data for some of the years. I left them in place and will talk about what the missing data revealed later. A second analysis without countries with missing data is warranted. For the CO2 data- frame the years before 1961 were removed. Before any analyzing was done one more step was taken. A new data-frame was created with only Meteorological Year in the months column and Temperature Change in the elements column. This was done because it will make transposing the data-frame cleaner. Finally, a temperature change average column was added to the new data-frame. 
	
	It was useful to write a function that could grab a country’s data out of the data-frame. Using this function, a comparison of the average temperature change between the US and Australia was done. They are similarly sized and on opposite sides of the planet. The analysis showed a similar upward trend. One more side-by-side analysis was done, a comparison of Australia and New Zealand. Once again, a similar upward trend in temperature could be seen, with the temperature rising more steeply in Australia. New Zealand is smaller and consists of two islands. It is possible that the ocean is blunting the temperature change. If this was not the case, and the oceans were warming as fast as the atmosphere, that would be a very frightful scenario. 
	
	Which areas have the highest and lowest average temperature change? A lot of the rows are missing values. All the areas with the largest temperature change average are missing the early years. While all the countries with the lowest temperature change average are missing the later years. This missing data points to more rapid temperature change in recent years Mongolia and Svalbard are the places that have the highest average temperature change and have data for all years. After a quick Google search Mongolia and Svalbard have had major issues with climate change. Looking at temperature change by continent. The world has risen 0.5 degrees C over the baseline temp taken from 1951-1980. Central America has the lowest temperature rise while Europe in general has the highest. North America Falls at the average.
	
	In order to analyze the data over time, it had to be manipulated so that all the areas had their own columns. Once again there is a general upward trend in temperature change. North America and Europe fluctuate the most wildly. After 1997 every area of the world was warmer than the baseline temperature each year.
	
	To look at the average CO2 emissions of each country some functions were used. The first is a function that calculates average and the second is one that calls a country and returns the average CO2 that it has emitted. A list of countries and how much CO2 they emitted was then created. The areas that are not countries were removed from this list except for international transportation. The top 20 CO2 emitting countries start with Brazil in the 20th spot and the United States in the top position. Russia and China are numbers two and three. International transport releases more CO2 into the atmosphere than Great Britain. The US and China release the most CO2 by far. Combining the temperature change data and the CO2 data, temperature change and CO2 emissions can be looked at side by side. When looked at this way it is obvious that both trends upwards.
	
	The data shows a correlation between the amount of CO2 released into the atmosphere and a rise in global temperature everywhere on the planet. Although this was just a precursory look into the potential role of that CO2 plays in the complex system of climate change, the trends looked similar. It is fair to say that Humans are putting more CO2 into the atmosphere than the environment can tolerate. 
